# Grid_CarbonIntensity_Modelling
The objective of this study is to predict Grid Carbon from 2021 to 2050 for a lag duration of 30 minutes interval. The time series data is modelled using a deep neural network (DNN), Long-short term memory model, (LSTM) to improve confidence in prediction and pick up non linearity in dependence of the features. There are 6 features in the time series data namely; Bio mass, Fossil Fuel, Interconnectors, Nuclear, Wind and other renewables. Original dataset was given from 1/01/2017 00:00:00 till 04/12/2020 16:00:00, from this data from 01/01/2017 00:00:00 to 31/12/2019 23:30:00 was taken as training set and data from 01/01/2020 00:00:00 to 04/12/2020 16:00:00 was taken as test set to conceptualise and confirm the ideologies to be implemented . A target sum total of trend for each of the 6 features was to be tracked. Prediction from the time series model for 4 different scenarios where also discussed. The scenarios are namely; consumer & system transformation, leading the way and steady progression all labelled “scenario 1-4” respectively. The approach in this work accurately predicted Grid carbon scenarios for each of the scenarios for the years 2021-2050. Fossil Fuel contribution to totally energy demand fizzles out in year 2050 for the scenario consumer transformation and year 2045 for the scenario leading the way . In foresight, DNN-LSTM machines provide an accurate and robust prediction capabilities, and methods developed in this report could be implemented and considered for future energy policies.
